# LEAN

This repository is for the main resistance training app for this project.

The app contains 20 popular resistance exercises by default, covering all parts of the body. Additionally, users can add their own exercises. Three of the included exercises have EA features enabled, bicep curl, lateral raise and shoulder press. The form classification models for bicep curl and lateral raise can detect the user exercising with bad range and exercising too fast. For shoulder press, form with bad range can also be detected in addition to detecting when the user is using their legs for momentum. An exercise can be of two types. The traditional repetition exercise where the exercise is completed by repeating a specific motion, or an isometric exercise where a specific body position is held for a duration of time such as a plank or wall sit. Workouts are created by the user configuring its name, a warm-up and/or cool-down, and the sequence of exercises that will be traversed. When adding an exercise to a workout, if it is a repetition exercise, the user may add one or more exercise sets for that exercise configuring the weight and repetition target for each set. If it is an isometric exercise, the user will set the duration of a countdown timer for how long they wish to hold the exercise for. Workouts created on the iPhone automatically sync to the user’s Apple Watch. Each exercise and workout created by the user can be edited and deleted within the iPhone app only.

Workouts can be run within the iPhone or Apple Watch app. The user completes an exercise set and presses the arrow buttons to move on to the next exercise set. At any time, the user has the option of pausing the workout or exiting the workout before completing all exercise sets, ensuring the workout progress so far is saved. Running a workout on the Apple Watch has feature parity with the iPhone with additional EA providing the workout includes at least one exercise with EA enabled. During an exercise set with an EA enabled exercise, the Apple Watch will vibrate when the user completes the second to last repetition, signalling they have one repetition remaining. Additionally, when moving to the next exercise set, the user will be alerted of any poor form detected from the previous exercise set and given advice on how to improve. The Apple Watch also provides a ‘Just Workout’ mode where the user is not constrained to a pre-configured set of exercises. An exercise classifier is used to identify the type of exercise the user is performing. Once identified, the exercise classifier is replaced with the form classifier for that particular exercise, repetitions counting begins and exercise metrics are recorded.

A workout summary is provided when finishing a workout on either the iPhone or Apple Watch. More details are provided if finished on the Apple Watch including the user’s average heart rate, calories burnt and a brief insight into the EA of any EA enabled exercises included in the workout. Within the iPhone app, a list of workouts completed on both the iPhone and Apple Watch can be viewed. For EA enabled exercises, the user can view a detailed insight into their performance for each exercise set. Details include the average repetition time, the average range of motion, the percentage of time exercising, and the average time spent in eccentric and concentric motion expressed as a percentage. Users can also view statistics based on previously completed workouts. These include a summary of the last week, month and year’s workout activity; pie charts on the most used exercises and body parts exercised; and the user’s personal best weight of each exercise they have completed. Lastly, a settings page is available to configure the following: toggle form advice alerts; change the weight unit (kilograms or pounds); set an additional countdown timer before isometric hold exercises to allow yourself to get into position; and change the theme of the iPhone app (system, light or dark).
